Applications can live in a lot of homes: 
a laptop
a mobile phone
a web browser,
or, a server

A data center is a warehouse or racks, filled with servers, wires, and a massive cooling infrastructure.

The majority of the world’s largest and most sophisticated apps live on servers. Most of those apps live on Unix servers. 

Unix is an OS that most servers run. Most applications developers work in Unix too.

Unix benefits:
faster,
stable,
compatible, 
typically free.

Unix is:
multi-process
it can run more than one program at a time
multi-user
more than one user account can be logged in simultaneously
developed by: Ken Thompson, Dennis Ritchie, and others at AT&T Bell Labs Research Center.
Released in 1973.
over the years it’s fragmented into three main families.

Linux: the Unix-like core of Android, Ubuntu
Darwin: the Unix-like core of iOS & OSX10

Why is Unix such a developer-friendly OS?
Data as plaintext file. Easy to read and parse data with your brain in the same way a computer would read and process.
Subdirectories. Nested files.
Made up of many small programs. Good for users & developers.
Input-output redirection. Input can come from someplace besides keyboard. Output can go someplace besides the screen.
These concepts make up the UNIX philosophy: a set of best practices for making small, yet capable software.

UNIX kernel: manages the hardware

Kernel is the strawberry filling between the two cookie crusts.

On top is the other programs running.
In the middle is the kernel.
On bottom is hardware like CPU & memory.

The kernel decides when/how much the CPU and memory will be engaged. It also manages input from hardware like mouse & keyboard.

UNIX shell: provides user interface to the kernel

Different types of shells: Command line terminals, GUIs, multi-touch user interfaces, audible user interfaces

The shell prevents the user from directly accessing the kernel. The shell protects the kernel from the user.


An absolute path starts with a  slash.
Whereas relative paths do not start with a slash.

PWD = print working directory.
CD (by itself) will take you to the home directory.
CD  =  CD ~  =  CD /users/hansDstroo

The root is the topmost container of a computer filesystem.
The root is generally restricted to administrative users.

Dealing with space in the command line? Use the forward-slash (\) as an “escape character.” The secret lies in tricking the command line into thinking that the space is just another character like any letter or number.

On Windows & Mac, the command line is case insensitive.

CTRL + U will clear the command line quickly.
